Welcome back to Angular 2 Essential Training.
In this video we’re going to go through
the process of creating a new nested component
to act as a directive.
As well as how to use templateUrl and styles
within our component.
Lets start out by going into our app folder
and create a new folder called welcome.
Inside this welcome folder I’m going to
add two new files.
The first one is called welcome.component.ts.
The second is called welcome.component.html.
I’m also going to add in an assets folder
that contains a logo.jpg file inside an images
folder.
And these files can be found within your resources
files.
Next, I’ll open up the welcome.html file
and paste in some html that can also be found
in your resources files.
Now, lets open our component file.
I’ll first create a class named WelcomeComponent
and add a single property named pageTitle
with a type of string and a default value
of ‘welcome’.
Next, I’ll create my component decorator.
We’ll include our metadata here, first adding
a selector with the value bs-welcome.
And now I’m going to add in a templateUrl
setting and define it as the location of our
welcome.component.html file.
This html file will now be associated to only
this component.
Notice the key templateUrl is different from
just that of template we defined in our AppComponent
file.
When assigning a templateUrl there is one
more step we need to take and that is to set
a moduleId of module.id.
This step is only needed when using SystemJS
as our module loader.
And also we’ll make sure to import our Component
from angular core.
Lets go back now and open up our WelcomeComponent
html file.
In this file we can see there is some bootstrap
styling defining a panel area along with an
instance of property binding for pageTitle.
So now that we setup our welcome component,
lets add this as a directive inside of our
AppComponent.
So there’s 2 steps involved in doing this.
The first is we need to add our WelcomeComponent
to the declarations array inside our AppModule
file.
And we need to make sure that we import it
within our file.
And now we can add our WelcomeComponent selector
inside the template area of our AppComponent.
We’ll save all that and restart our application.
And now you can see that our welcome component
is being displayed inside of our AppComponent
within our application.
We’ll cover just one more aspect of components
here and that is how to add styling to our
specific component.
We’re able to isolate style selectors to
individual components one of two ways.
Either by defining styles within our decorator
like this.
Then adding our selectors inside of an array.
We need to add quotation marks here, and then
the syntax the same way we do as in a css
file.
I’ll flip over to my welcome.html file and
add a new class called byline.
So we’ll save this page and reload our app.
And now you can see that our text gets changed
to the color green.
You won’t usually see styles defined inline
within our component like this though.
The much more common way of declaring styles
is in its own css file.
So what we can do is add a new css file within
our welcome folder.
And we’ll call it welcome.component.css.
And then inside of our component we’ll change
the styles to styleUrls.
And then we’ll reference our new style sheet.
Then we’ll add our style definition to our
style sheet.
Then we can save these files and reload our
application.
Now you can see that our app hasn’t changed
but we are referencing our new css file.